SupervisorM&D
============

SupervisorM&D (or SupervisorMD) is an alias for two software tools: one developed for desktop platform and another developed for Android platform. These tools were developed as proof of concept and part of the evaluation of the doctoral thesis in Computer Science (http://www.computacao.ufcg.edu.br/pos-graduacao) of Elthon Oliveira, student of Embedded Lab, Embedded Systems and Pervasive Computing Lab (http://www.embeddedlab.org/en).

Title

The doctoral thesis involved currently has the title: 
- Model-Based Method for Pervasive Health Care Systems: a Case Study on Aid to Definition and Implementation of Physical Exercise Programs

Author of the thesis work
- Elthon Allex da Silva Oliveira, M.Sc. (http://lattes.cnpq.br/7627571580413875)

Developers
- Elthon Allex da Silva Oliveira, M.Sc.
- Marcos José Ferreira Neto, B.Sc. (Elthon's former undergraduate student) (http://lattes.cnpq.br/7656204149058713)

Thesis advisors
- Hyggo Oliveira de Almeida, D.Sc. (http://lattes.cnpq.br/4993914550234923)
- Leandro Dias da Silva, D.Sc. (http://lattes.cnpq.br/7856968264410259)

Abstract

SupervisorM&D is an alias for two software tools. A software tool developed for the desktop platform, called SupervisorD. And another tool developed for the Android platform, called SupervisorM.

SupervisorD is a tool designed for usage by health care professionals, specifically by cardiologists or physical education professionals. With such a tool in hands, health care professionals can define an exercise program for a given individual. In this exercise program, the professional must include recommendations for a particular individual in accordance with the following features: 
- physiological profile of the individual (defined by laboratory tests and medical history);
- nature of the exercise to be practiced; and 
- variables to be monitored (physiological, environmental and behavioral). 

SupervisorD generates a file called reference model that works as a guidance for the individual during the practice of physical exercise. 

SupervisorM is a software tool designed for usage by individuals interested in safe physical exercise. This software tool performs the reference model generated by SupervidorD tool. Based on sensors readings (connected to the smartphone through bluetooth connection), this tool extracts recommendations from the model and displays it to the individual. Such recommendations will guide the individual during physical exercise avoiding. This guidance will allow individual to avoid insecure/danger physiological states.

Articles published about this work
- FERREIRA NETO, M. J. Supervisor: Utilização de Autômatos para Garantir a Prática Segura de Exercícios Físicos. Trabalho de Conclusão de Curso. Bacharelado em Ciência da Computação. Universidade Federal de Alagoas - Campus Arapiraca. 2014.
- OLIVEIRA, E. ; SILVA, L. D. da ; ALMEIDA, H. O. de ; PERKUSICH, A. Model-based Solution for Controlling Physiology. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Springer. 2013.
- OLIVEIRA, E. A. da S. Metodologia Baseada em Modelos para Sistemas Pervasivos de Cuidados com a Saúde: um Estudo de Caso em Auxílio à Prática de Atividades Físicas Prescritas. Documento para qualificação de Tese de Doutorado. Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciência da Computação. Universidade Federal de Campina Grande. 2013.
- OLIVEIRA, E. ; SILVA, L. ; CUNHA JUNIOR, A. ; ALMEIDA, H. ; PERKUSICH, A. Controlled and Safe Physical Activities. In: XIII Congresso Brasileiro de Informática em Saúde, Curitiba. 2012.
- OLIVEIRA, E. ; SILVA, L. ; ALMEIDA, H. ; PERKUSICH, A. An Approach For Controlling Human Physiology Based On The Supervisory Control Theory. In: 2nd International Symposium on the Foundations of Health Information Engineering and Systems, París. 2012.
